Masking st (#4261)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/remote-management/source-templates/linux.md

---
id: linux
title: Linux Source Template
sidebar_label: Linux
description: Learn about the Sumo Logic Linux source template for OpenTelemetry.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<head>
  <meta name="robots" content="noindex" />
</head>

<p><a href="/docs/beta"><span className="beta">Beta</span></a></p>
<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/hosts-operating-systems/linux-transparent.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="45"/> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/otel-color.svg')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="30"/>

> Linux source template creates an OpenTelemetry configuration that can be pushed to a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector (abbreviated as otelcol). By creating this source template and pushing the config to the appropriate OpenTelemetry agent you can ensure collection of linux logs and host metrics of linux to Sumo Logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Linux source template creates an OpenTelemetry configuration that can be pushed to a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector (abbreviated as otelcol). By creating this source template and pushing the config to the appropriate OpenTelemetry agent, you can ensure collection of linux logs and host metrics of linux to Sumo Logic.
```

		
## Fields creation in Sumo Logic for Linux

If not already present, the following [Fields](/docs/manage/fields/) are created as part of source template creation.

- **`sumo.datasource`**. Fixed value of **linux**.

> - **`deployment.environment`** User configured field at the time of collector installation. This identifies the environment where the linux system resides. For example: dev, prod or qa.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **`deployment.environment`** User configured field at the time of collector installation. This identifies the environment where the linux system resides. For example: dev, prod, or qa.
```

> - **`deployment.environment`** User configured field at the time of collector installation. This identifies the environment where the linux system resides. For example: dev, prod, or qa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`deployment.environment`**. This is a user-configured field set during the collector installation. It identifies the environment where the Linux system resides, such as `dev`, `prod`, or `qa`.
```

> - **`deployment.environment`** User configured field at the time of collector installation. This identifies the environment where the linux system resides. For example: dev, prod, or qa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`deployment.environment`**. This is a user-configured field set at the time of collector installation. It identifies the environment where the Linux system resides, such as `dev`, `prod`, or `qa`.
```

> - **`host.group`**. This is a collector level field and is user configured (at the time of collector installation). This identifies the linux host group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`host.group`**. This is a collector-level field that is user-configured at the time of collector installation. It identifies the Linux host group.
```

> - **`host.group`**. This is a collector level field and is user configured (at the time of collector installation). Through this, the linux host group is identified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **`host.group`**. This is a collector level field and is user configured (at the time of collector installation). This identifies the linux host group.
```

> - **`host.name`**. This is tagged through the resourcedetection processor. It holds the value of the host name where the OTel collector is installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **`host.name`**. This is tagged through the resource detection processor. It holds the value of the host name where the OTel collector is installed.
```

Author: The name of the processor itself is resource detection https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/resourcedetectionprocessor that is why I have kept this way

		
## Prerequisites
		
### For logs collection
This app is based on the following log files from the Ubuntu Linux machine.

- auth.log
- syslog
- daemon.log
- dpkg.log
- kern.log
- CentOS, Amazon Linux, and Red Hat
- audit/audit.log
- secure
- messages
- yum.log

import LogsCollectionPrereqisites from '../../../../reuse/apps/logs-collection-prereqisites.md';

<LogsCollectionPrereqisites/>
		
## Source template configuration
		

> You can follow the below steps to set a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector and push the source template to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the below steps to set a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector and push the source template to it.
```

		
### Step 1: Set up remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector
		
import CollectorInstallation from '../../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/collector-installation.md';
		
<CollectorInstallation/>
		
### Step 2: Configure the source template
		

> In this step, you will configure the yaml required for Linux Collection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this step, you will configure the YAML required for Linux Collection.
```

> Below are the inputs required:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

		
- **Name**. Name of the source template.
- **Description**. Description for the source template.

> #### Logs Collection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

#### Logs Collection
```

> - **Fields/Metadata**. You can provide any customer fields to be tagged with the data collected. By default sumo tags _sourceCategory with the value otel/linux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fields/Metadata**. You can provide any customer fields to be tagged with the data collected. By default, sumo tags `_sourceCategory` with the value otel/linux.
```

> - **Logs**. The following fields are pre-populated with default paths for common log files that are used in different Linux distributions. Not all paths might be relevant for your operating system. Please modify the list of files as required or leave the default values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Logs**. The following fields are pre-populated with default paths, for common log files that are used in different Linux distributions. Not all paths might be relevant for your operating system. Modify the list of files as required or leave the default values.
```

#### Metrics Collection
- **Metrics**. Select the metric scrappers you want to enable. By default metric collection for CPU,memory,disk,load,file system,network and paging are enabled. Process metric collection is disabled by default.

##### Enable process metric collection (Optional)

import ProcMetrics from '../../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/process-metric-collection.md';

<ProcMetrics/>
		
- **Scan Interval**. The frequency at which the source is scanned.

> You can add processing rules for logs/metrics collected. More details can be found [here](../processing-rules/index.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add processing rules for logs/metrics collected. To learn more, refer to [Processing Rules](../processing-rules/index.md).
```

> - **Scan Interval**. The frequency at which the source is scanned.
> 
> You can add processing rules for logs/metrics collected. To learn more, refer to [Processing Rules](../processing-rules/index.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Scan Interval**. The frequency at which the source is scanned.
- **Processing Rules**. You can add processing rules for logs/metrics collected. To learn more, refer to [Processing Rules](../processing-rules/index.md).
```
